---
{"dg-publish":true,"permalink":"/promise-us-that-you-are-not-going-to-disappear-quote/"}
---


#source [[Sakakibara 2020 - Whale Snow\|Sakakibara 2020 - Whale Snow]]

> Then Martha said, ==“Promise us that you are not going to disappear.”== In a calm voice, followed by a pause, she then explained that she had seen many tanik (white) scholars coming to Barrow from the Lower Forty-Eight, soliciting help from the villagers without any form of compensation, and never returning to the community to report back or to reciprocate the villagers’ hospitality. “Wherever them tanik went . . . we never saw them again. We are so tired of these people. We had too many of them.” e IRB approval would not have made any difference, I thought, without knowing how to respond, except to say with some humor that I am not white. 
> Academic researchers in Indigenous communities have a historical and lingering association with data mining, and this history remains inseparable from the legacy of colonialism and colonization to this day (Brown 2004; Fox 2014; Herman 2018; Rundstrom and Deur 1999). It was this reputation for outsider extraction that Martha was afraid of. She saw “too many times” when local knowledge and experience were [[extraction\|conveniently truncated and plugged into the market economy as medicine, books, popular music, and designs, or when they were instantly turned into private property after being detached from the appropriate cultural contexts]] conveniently truncated and plugged into the market economy as medicine, books, popular music, and designs, or when they were instantly turned into private property after being detached from the appropriate cultural contexts. Rarely was a plan to benefit the community part of this enterprise. “It takes a long time to earn your place here,” she continued. “You’ll get a college degree after talking with us and writing a paper using our stories and eating our whales. What will we get from you in return?” Words failed me. I just sat there feeling awkward and uncomfortable. Stillness. Silence. Then Martha smiled subtly, and asked me to swear that I would commit myself to cultivate a [[relationality (content map)\|long-term relationship]] with her and her community before starting to work on my dissertation project. I agreed to make the commitment.
> (p. xx-xxi)